welcome to the man of recaps this is
star wars episode 9 the rise of
Skywalker the opening crawl starts with
an epic twist Emperor Palpatine is alive
and has just tweeted to the whole galaxy
that he's back kylo Ren tracks him down
he's hiding in this ancient Sith temple
we spent years theorizing about who
supreme leader Snoke was turns out he
was a Palpatine puppet grown in a tube
and he's been busy here on this isolated
planet by himself building a gigantic
fleet of stardestroyers now on the
Millennium Falcon our good guys are
hanging out they're picking up a secret
message from a mysterious spy within the
first order but the bad guys show up
they have a spaceship chase few
Lightspeed to get away but they could
track them through Lightspeed now so
they have a crazy Lightspeed jumping
chase right wasn't with them she's Jedi
training back on rebel planet her new
Jedi Master is Leia
so Poe comes back with the bad news that
Palpatine really is alive with the huge
fleet they don't know where he is but
ray looks through luke's journals and
finds that a sith Wayfinder could lead
them to it so hard gang is off on an
adventure - rose Tico though they wrote
her out of this movie the good guys go
to Burning Man meet up with a contact
there it's Lando Calrissian he's been
tracking the bad guy with the Sith
wayfinder so they have a chase through
the sand the stormtroopers have jetpacks
now but ray takes em out and the good
guys win they end up crashing into some
quicksand though and with the prospect
of their even the deaths of intrusted
confess his love to Rey but they don't
die they just fall down into these
tunnels and Ray's like what was that you
were about to tell me and he's like oh
nothing nothing if I'm the bad guys
dagger that will lead them to the Sith
wayfinder with the ancient Sith writting
c-3po could translate it but his
programming doesn't allow him to because
it's an illegal language just then a
snake monster shows up but Ray's ID hold
on I think it's a friendly snake monster
turns out it's just injured and raised
like don't worry buddy I'll feel that
for you with the power of the force
that's not how the force works yeah
apparently she's got for sealing powers
now so the good guys are leaving but who
shows up the Knights of Ren yeah they
were teased back in EPS Evan we're super
excited to see what they do nice friend
cause but they legitimately do nothing
just stand around looking cool kylo
ren's flying in and it's the sweet
trailer moment where he's chasing down
Rey and she OH
back flips over cuts the wing off
meanwhile off-screen the Knights of Ren
captured just Chewbacca somehow Rey
tries to stop the ship from leaving but
kylo Ren survived and he's stopping it
too they're having a forced tug of war
and this makes Rey mad so she loses
control and oh wait knee Rubin blows up
the ship hurray just killed Chewbacca
except he's totally fine he was just on
the other ship I guess anyway for c-3po
to translate the dagger they need to
wipe his memory Poe knows a good droid
guy but he runs into his ex-girlfriend
she agrees to help though they go to
little master droid guy Babu Frick he
hits the factory reset button and c-3po
translates the dagger but as a side
effect his memory is totally wiped he's
like hey who are you guys bad guys show
up and right senses Chewbacca is alive
so they sneak onto the ship although
they abandon stealth pretty quickly they
grab Chewbacca and try to blast their
way out of there but they are all gods
they're about to be executed but what's
this
general Hux saved them he is the spy
he's not a good guy though he still
hates the resistance but he hates kylo
Ren even more unfortunately another
general figures this out immediately and
kills him meanwhile Rey was grabbing the
dagger but she gets a psychic FaceTime
with kylo Ren he's down on the planet
looking for her and they have a
lightsaber battle where things can like
move from one location to the other so
when they knocked off Vader's helmet did
hit lands next to kylo he's like girl
what you doing in my bedroom he meets
her back on the ship and drops a truth
bomb that Palpatine just told him the
real truth about her parents Ray's
grandfather there was Palpatine blah
yeah apparently Palpatine had sex at
some point
her parents were good though and wanted
to hide her from him so that's why they
abandoned her on jakku and then got
killed
i was like come on baby join me on the
dark side it's super cool i promise but
just then her friends show up and red
pieces out of there so the synth
wayfinder they're searching for is in
the ruins of the old Death Star they
meet some new people on horses they're
like hey we're good guys in fact she
used to be a first order stormtrooper
that deserted it feels like wait you
were storm trooper I was a storm trooper
and these two definitely gonna do it Rey
couldn't wait for the waves to die down
she's out there perfect storming her way
to the Death Star
she's climbing around in the ruins
finally using the scavenger skills she
was raised with she makes it to the
Emperor's throne room and finds his
secret closet then grabs the Sith
wayfinder that she has to fight an
imagined
a dark side version of herself and she
has to fight a non-imaginary kylo Ren
they have an epic lightsaber battle with
the waves crashing around it's actually
legit cool he's about to kill her but
he's distracted by a force text from his
mom Leia in fact ley decides to die
right now
kylo drops his lightsaber in morning but
Rey no mercy that stabs him with it
so Rey almost killed kylo but she's kind
of got a crush on him she feels bad and
four seals him she's like hey boo sorry
I almost killed you then Jax his ship
and leaves him there to stare into the
distance brooding he has an imaginary
convo with his dad han Solo it's like
hey son I forgive you for killing me I
still love you
this gives kylo the strength to turn
from the dark side he is now our
redeemed Ben solo he's gone to Luke's
exile planet tries to throw her
lightsaber away - but dose Luke
Skywalker catches it like hey what are
you doing she's messed up about
Palpatine bee and her grandfather she's
afraid she'll turn to the dark side -
and wants to exile herself here but he
stalks him sense into her gives her a
new lightsaber in fact that belongs to
Leia back when she was training as a
Jedi meanwhile Palpatine's taking
control of the first order in fact he
brands it as the final order so PO and
fitten rallied the resistance and it's
time for the final space battle
pewpewpew flying around they land some
horses on a spaceship meanwhile Rey goes
to confront Palpatine who's creepily
attached to a crane arm thing his master
plan is for raid to kill him that would
turn her to the dark side and then he
could possess her body this plan would
have been much more effective if he
didn't tell ray about it because she was
going to kill him and now she's just not
then a redeemed kylo Ren Ben solo coming
in to save the day he stopped by the
Knights of Ren his former best friends
but I guess they have no loyalty to him
without a lightsaber he's getting his
butt kicked yeah I know it was a
symbolic gesture but maybe you shouldn't
have chucked it into the ocean so Rey it
looks like she's gonna strike down
Palpatine but oh what's this she passed
it psychically over to Ben now armed
with a lightsaber he slaughters all of
his former best friends so ray and
redeemed kylo face-down Palpatine
unfortunately he's way stronger than
them brings them to their knees no
problem but wait what's this turns out
they are a dyad in the force super rare
thing means they're you know like one
life into unfortunately this doesn't
make them stronger together
fact it means Palpatine can suck out
their combined life force and fully
resurrect himself he throws kylo into
the pit and upstairs things look bleak
for the rebels but wait what's this
reinforcements have arrived yeah Lando
and Chewie took the Millennium Falcon
recruited good people from all across
the galaxy but Palpatine's like now I
don't think so
lightning time pew blasts all the rebel
ships and yeah this is no bueno
but Rey here's the force voices of all
the past Jedi's which give her the
strength to stand up and fight help Teen
does his one move and shoots lightning
at her but she blocks it and it's a
Dragonball Z beam battle their climactic
final lines are oddly similar to
Avengers endgame then boom double
lightsaber reflects the Lightning on him
and blows him away
unfortunately the strain over this kills
ray oops
spin by the way is apparently force
sensitive can sense her death but wait
Ben solo climbed back up the pit he's
like ready you can't die we never even
got to make out so he tries his own
force healing powers and boom Rey back
to life he's to start smoochin and reloj
is on but it's immediately back off I
guess kylo had to use his life force to
bring ray back and he fades away now
redeemed to be a good force ghost so the
good guys won the galaxy is saved ex
stormtrooper girl talks to Lando who had
supplied his either his daughter or he's
trying to hit on her ray travels to
Luke's old home on Tatooine buries Luke
and Leia's lightsabers there she doesn't
need him anymore she's built her own and
it is yellow yeah sweet and is it double
bladed it kind of looks like it but they
awkwardly positioned the camera just so
we can't tell it probably would have
been cool if she got to use it in the
movie but oh whatever
then a random old lady shows up hey diri
what's your name she's like my name is
Rey and it's like no dummy I mean what's
your last name
Rey the orphan never had one certainly
doesn't want to be Palpatine so she
looks to the forest ghosts of her
mentors Luke and Leia Skywalker and
decides to take their surname Bryce de
Luca
sure I mean why not and that's how rise
of Skywalker comes to an end hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of TV and movies and click the
join button to support the channel and
be a recap champion